VRLA Technical Handbook VRLA Technical Handbook COMPANY ONE OF THE WORLD’S LARGEST BATTERY MANUFACTURERS 243,540 EMPLOYEES*1 54 BILLION SALES*2 Panasonic Industry Europe Headquarters in Ottobrunn (near Munich) 2 COMPANY Panasonic Batteries Panasonic offers a wide range of power solutions for portable and stationary applications. Our product range includes high reliability batteries such as Lithium-Ion, Lithium-Ion Pin-type, Lithium, Nickel-Metal Hydride, Nickel-Cadmium, Valve-Regulated-Lead-Acid (VRLA), Alkaline, and Zinc-Carbon. With this breadth and depth to the portfolio, we can power your business in virtually all applications. Panasonic began manufacturing batteries in 1931 and is today the most diversified global battery producer worldwide, with an extensive network of manufacturing companies. The company employees are dedicated to research, development and production of batteries for an energised world. Our battery production facilities use leading-edge manufacturing processes that meet the toughest quality standards. All our factories are certified to ISO standards – with ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 being the minimum benchmarks. This means each factory has its own quality and environmental manage ment, delivers products that measure up to toughest standards of reliability. Panasonic Industry Europe GmbH is part of the global Panasonic Group and provides industrial products and services in Europe. As a partner for the industry sector, Panasonic researches, develops, manufactures and supplies technologies that contribute to a better life and a better world. Looking back on over 100 years of engineering knowhow in electronics, Panasonic is the right supplier when it comes to engineering expertise combined with solution competence. The portfolio covers key elec tronic components such as batteries, devices and modules up to complete solutions and production equipment for manufacturing lines across a broad range of industries. Certifications ‘Quality is our Business’ – this is what Panasonic stands for. It is the principle for all our batteries and supporting services. This commitment is confirmed by numerous certifications. Batteries Automotive Industry Panasonic Industry Europe *1 Employees of Panasonic Corporation *2 Refers to the fiscal year ended March 2019 of Panasonic Corporation, based on exchange rate EUR/JPY 128. Panasonic Industry Europe Office in Hamburg 3 YOUR TOOLS TO FIND At Panasonic Batteries we offer diverse services intended to make the customer´s life easier. Find the right pictures and media files in our Mediapool, gain insight into battery technology in our handbooks and white papers and be entertained by watching amazing videos at our YouTube Channel. Finally, our Battery Finder will help you to find the right battery for your application. Test our services! The Panasonic Industry Mediapool is a complete online library of Panasonic battery images, videos, handbooks, press releases, and white papers, providing you with just the right material for all sorts of projects. The Mediapool is open to all visitors to the Panasonic website, and offers material for both print and web. The image files differ with respect to their resolution (image size) and colour space (CMYK or RGB). The library contains files in six formats: TIF, PNG, JPG, AI, PDF, and MP4. New files appear in the folder ‘New files’ for three months. You can assemble as many files as you need and download them directly to your computer. Here’s an overview of what you can do: • Locate the material you need by product name or by clicking through the categories • Preview file details – the preview function tells you the full name of the file, its size, format, and resolution • Select the files you wish to download. You can take files from multiple folders, or select all the material in a particular folder or category in one-click opera - tion – there’s no need to select each one individually • Preview your personal ‘Download bag’ of the files you have selected • The Mediapool zips your data into a file, which you then download to your computer. You unzip the file to the location of your choice simply by double-clicking the file name. The material is then ready for use. Mediapool Download the right battery media files MARKETING SERVICE TOOLS 4 Please find a comprehensive selection of Panasonic battery videos at our YouTube channel. You can discover videos about the inner structure of our different battery chemistries, a couple of application videos and films which explain why batteries some - times help to save human lives and sharks’ lives as well. Are you getting curious? Please follow the QR code to our batteries video world! MARKETING SERVICE TOOLS Our white papers give developers and technical professionals the opportunity to leverage the expertise of our specialists for their own projects. We have been manufacturing batteries for a number of decades, and over this time have accumulated considerable knowledge and experience that we wish to share. White Paper Find the right technical information Our range of digital tools to help you in your daily work are complemented by our ‘classics’ on paper: the Short Form Catalog and the technical handbooks on the various battery product groups. These remain popular with customers as valu - able reference aids. Short Form Catalog and Handbooks Get the right product overview YouTube Channel Find the right battery video 5 INDEX CHAPTER PAGE COMPANY 2 – 3 MARKETING SERVICE TOOLS 4 – 5 INDEX 6 PRECAUTIONS FOR HANDLING VRLA BATTERIES 7 – 11 VRLA BATTERIES 12 – 14 CHARACTERISTICS 15 – 17 CHARGING METHODS 18 – 20 SAFETY / SAFETY DESIGN 21 TERMINAL DATA 22 STANDARDS 24 – 25 BATTERY LABEL DESIGN 25 BATTERY SELECTION 26 BATTERY INDEX 27 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS 28 – 47 GLOSSARY OF MAIN BATTERY TERMS 48 – 50 CONTACT 52 6 This document should be read in its entirety and its contents fully understood before handling or using Panasonic rechargeable sealed lead acid batteries. If there are any questions, please contact Panasonic. Please keep this document available for reference. Due to the potential energy stored in the batteries, improper handling or use of the batteries without understanding this document may result in injury caused by electrolyte leakage, heat generation, or explosion. DEGREE OF DANGER Danger When the batteries are handled or used improperly, death or severe injury may occur. Warning When the batteries are handled or used improperly, death or severe injury may occur, and slight injury or loss of products often occur. Caution When the batteries are handled or used improperly, slight injury may occur and damage to the batteries and equip - ment may occur. Request When the batteries are handled or used improperly, damage to quality or performance may occur. Note 1 Improper handling and use of the batteries may cause dangerous conditions to arise. All precautions should be taken to prevent any harmful effects from the use of the batteries. Note 2 ‘Severe injury’ as a result of improper handling or use of the batteries may include but are not limited to loss of eyesight, injury/burn/electric shock/fracture of a bone/poisoning with after effect, or injury that requires long-term medical treatment. ‘Slight injury’ covers such conditions as burns or electric shock that do not require long-term medical treat - ment. Damage to products is defined as extensive damage to a house, a house hold effects, a livestock, or pets. Note 3 ‘Requests’ are meant to prevent a decrease in the quality or the performance of the batteries. ENVIRONMENT AND CONDITION Danger 1. Do not put the batteries into airtight containers or bags. The batteries tend to generate inflammable gas upon excess charge which may cause an explosion if enclosed in an airtight container. Warning 1. The batteries must be charged using the specified charger or by maintaining the charging conditions indi - cated by Panasonic. If the batteries are charged under conditions other than those specified by Panasonic, they may leak, generate excessive heat, or explode. 2. When using the batteries in medical equipment, incor - porate a back-up system other than the main battery in the event of power failure. 3. Insert insulation that is resistant to heat and sulfuric acid between the batteries and any metallic housing. Failure to do so may cause the batteries to smoke or burn in case of electrolyte leakage. 4. Do not place the batteries near a device that may generate sparks (such as a switch or fuse) and do not place the batteries close to fire. The batteries may generate an inflammable gas when charged excessively that may ignite upon contact with a spark or they may burn or explode due to sparks or fire. Caution 1. Use or store the batteries in the temperature range: Discharge (operating in application): -15°C ~ 50°C. Charge: 0°C to 40°C. Storage: -15°C to 40°C. Tem pe ra- tures above or below those recommended could result in damage or deformity of the batteries. 2. Avoid placing batteries near a heat-generating device (such as a transformer) which may cause the batteries to generate excessive heat, leak or explode. 3. Do not allow the batteries to be exposed to rain or sea water. If the battery terminals should get wet, they may corrode. 4. Do not use or store the batteries in a car under the blazing sun, in direct sunlight. To do so may cause the batteries to leak, generate excessive heat, or explode. 5. Do not use or store the batteries in a dusty place as dust may cause them to short circuit between their termi - nals. When using the batteries in a dusty place, check them periodically. 6. In applications requiring more than one battery, first connect the batteries together and then connect the batteries to the charger or the load. Be careful to connect the (+)pole of the batteries to the (+)terminal of either the charger or the load. Improperly connecting 7 PRECAUTIONS FOR HANDLING VRLA BATTERIES the batteries, charger, or load may cause an explosion or fire to occur. In some cases, bodily injury may occur. 7. When handling the batteries, wear steel-tipped shoes to prevent possible injury to the feet if the batteries are accidentally dropped. Request 1. Dropping a battery may cause a strong physical shock that may damage the performance of the battery. 2. Confirm the life of the batteries using the real load and charger. Differences in the charging and the discharging conditions may cause a big difference in the life of the batteries. INSTALLATION Danger 1. Tools such as wrenches used to install the batteries should be insulated. Bare metal tools may cause an abnormal short circuit accident to occur resulting in bodily injury, damage to the batteries, explosion or fire. 2. Do not install the batteries in a room without ventila - tion. The batteries tend to generate an inflammable gas upon excess charge resulting in an explosion or fire if the room is closed. Warning 1. Do not contact any plastic or resin* 1 which contains a migrating plasticizer with the batteries. Furthermore, avoid using organic solvents such as thinner, gasoline, lamp oil, benzine and liquid detergent to clean the batteries. The use of any of above materials may cause the containers and/or the covers (ABS resin) of the batteries to crack and leak. This may cause a fire in the worst scenario. Make sure the use of material will not cause the containers and/or the covers of the batteries to crack due to the migration of plasticizer within the material by asking the manufacturer of the material if necessary. 2. Always use such as rubber gloves when handling batteries with the voltages higher than 45V in order to prevent severe bodily injury from occurring. 3. Do not install the batteries in areas where they may come in contact with water. If the batteries come in contact with water, an electric shock may occur. Caution 1. During unpacking, handle the batteries carefully and check for cracks, breakage, or electrolyte leakage. Failure to handle carefully may result in damage due to physical shock. 2. When the batteries are being mounted in the equip - ment, consider the best position for easy checking, maintenance and replacement. In addition, the batteries should be located in the lowest part of the equipment as possible. The rechargeable sealed lead acid batteries, mentioned in this document, are designed for use in any position, but charging the batteries in the upside- down position should be avoided . When these batteries are charged excessively in the upside-down position, leakage of electrolyte from the rubber vents may occur. The upside-down is shown on the previous page. In this upside-down position, the mark ‘Panasonic’ on the battery is turned upside down. The drawings are only for explanation of the battery’s position; therefore these are not equal to the real appearance of the battery that the specifications describe. Can be used in the vertical position and the side down position (maximum angle of 90°C from the normal position). 3. Do not carry the batteries by picking up them by their terminals or lead wires. To do so may damage the batteries. 4. Be careful not to jolt the batteries as it may result in damage to them. 5. Be aware the batteries are relatively heavy compared to their volume. Please be careful to carry these batteries in order to avoid injury and/or lumbago. 6. Do not cover the batteries with plastic sheet as it may cause a fire or an explosion by conducting static elec - tricity. 7. Fasten the bolts and the nuts with the torque as shown on page 11: Not to do so may cause the battery terminals to break. Panasonic Panasonic PanasoniccinosanaP Upright position Upside-down position H orizontal position Vertical position *1 Examples for plastic or resin which should be avoided using: vinyl chloride, oily rubber. Examples for plastic or resin which is proper for the use: Polyolefin resin such as polypropylene, polyethylene.8 PRECAUTIONS FOR HANDLING VRLA BATTERIES 8. Place the necessary insulating covers over the termi - nals, the connecting bars, and bolts and nuts to prevent a dangerous electric shock. 9. Please consult Panasonic prior to using the batteries in applications such as a motor bicycle, an engine driven lawn mower, etc. which may generate severe vibration. 10. Fasten the batteries firmly to the equipment to avoid the influence of vibration and/or physical shock. Request 1. The batteries should be installed by a certified technician. PREPARATION PRIOR TO OPERATION Danger 1. Be sure to provide enough insulation around the lead wires and/or plates used between the batteries and the application. Insufficient insulation may cause an electric shock. Heat generating from a short circuit (or excess current) may result in an injury, burn, smoke or fire. Caution 1. Do not plug the batteries directly into the outlet or the cigarette receptacle of a car without inserting a charger between the batteries and the outlet or the receptacle. To do so may cause electrolyte leakage, heat genera - tion, or explosion of the battery. 2. Turn off the circuit switch when the connections between the batteries and the charger/load are made. 3. When using the batteries for the first time, check for rust, heat generation, or any other abnormalities. If found, do not use as it may cause electrolyte leakage, heat generation, or explosion. Request 1. Since the batteries tend to lose a part of their capacity due to self-discharge during shipment and storage, recharge the batteries before you use them after purchase or long-term storage in order to restore their full capacity. Check for the following conditions before recharge: UNSPECIFIED USE Caution 1. Do not place the batteries in an unspecified use or they may leak, generate heat, or explode. METHOD OF HANDLING AND OPERATION Danger 1. Do not directly connect the positive and negative termi - nals with a conductive material such as a wire. Be careful while using a metal tool such as a wrench and/ or carrying the batteries with metallic necklaces and hairpins not to make a short circuit. A short circuit of the battery’s terminals may cause a heat generation, an explosion, or a fire. Warning 1. Never dispose the batteries in a fire as it may cause them to explode or generate a toxic gas. 2. Do not attempt to disassemble the batteries as it could cause leakage of Sulfuric acid that could cause injury. Caution 1. To prevent accidents from happening, change any battery that is found to have an abnormality such as a crack, a deformity, or leakage. The batteries must be kept clean and free from dust to prevent loss of capacity or accident. 2. If any abnormality of the charge voltage or the discharge Bolt (nut) size (mm) Fastening torque (Nm)Diameter Pitch Length M5 (5) 0.8 15 ± 1 2.0 – 3.1 M6 (6) 1.0 20 ± 1 4.1 – 5.6 M8 (8) 1.25 20 ± 1 8.2 – 10.2 Charging method Charging condition (at 20°C) Constant voltage ⃝ Regulation range of the controlled voltage: 7.25V to 7.45V/6V battery, 14.5V to 14.9V/12V battery; initial current: 0.1CA to 0.4CA; maximum charging time: 24 hours. ⃝ Short-time charge is possible when several batteries of the same model, under the same storage conditions can be charged in series. Otherwise they can be char- ged separately. Constant current ⃝ Charging current: 0.1CA ⃝ Charging time (hours) = [Amount of self-discharge (Ah)/0.1CA] x 120% ⃝ Rough estimation of amount of self-discharge is as follows (for an example): When the storage ambient tempe- rature is lower than 20°C, and storage time is known, assume the following amount of self-discharge: [5%/month] x storage months ⃝ Multiply this by the rated capacity (at 20 hours rate) of the battery. ⃝ Regardless of the above calculation, the charge time for a refresh charge must be less than 12 hours. ⃝ When the storage ambient temperature is higher than 20°C, please consult Panasonic. 9 PRECAUTIONS FOR HANDLING VRLA BATTERIES voltage is detected, replace the batteries with new ones. 3. Charging the batteries with an inverse polarity connec - tion between the batteries and the charger could cause electrolyte leakage, heat generation, or a fire. 4. Do not solder directly on the batteries’ terminal tabs. Soldering directly on the batteries’ terminals may cause a leak of electrolyte. Consult Panasonic when soldering is necessary. 5. Avoid the use of the batteries differing in capacity, type, history of use (charge/discharge operation). These differ - ences could cause electrolyte leakage or heat generation. 6. Do not remove or scratch the outer tube of the battery or it may cause an electrolyte leakage or electrical leakage. 7. Do not allow the batteries to be subjected to any strong physical shocks or jolts while moving them. Treating the batteries roughly could cause leaks, heat genera - tion, or explosions. 8. Do not charge the batteries beyond the amount of the time indicated in the specifications, or do not charge after the charge indication lamp indicates a full charge. Take the batteries off the charger if the charge is not finished after the specified charge time. Over-charging can cause leakage, heat generation, or explosions. 9. Children should be taught how to handle and use the batteries correctly. 10. Keep the batteries out of the reach of small children at all times. Request 1. The cut-off voltage during discharge should vary depending on the discharge current. Do not discharge the batteries lower than the recommended cut-off voltage shown in Panasonic specifications or Panasonic technical handbooks. Recharging a battery which was once discharged below the recommended cut-off voltage may generate heat, resulting in the defor - mation of the battery or in condensation around the battery cover caused when moisture within the battery evaporates. In addition, the efficiency of the battery would eventually decrease. Overdischarging a battery may result in reduced performance. Always recharge the batteries immediately after discharge even if the batteries were not discharged to the recommended cut-off voltage. If the batteries are not charged soon after discharge, the batteries performance may be reduced due to the so-called ‘sulfation phenomena’. Note: The cut-off device to prevent overdischarge should cut off all discharge current including any weak current. 2. Thoroughly study the charge methods and the condi - tions of the batteries before adopting other charge methods which are not shown in the Panasonic specifi - cations or the Panasonic technical handbook, for safety reasons. 3. When the batteries are used in a cyclic application, it is important to charge the batteries for the proper amount of time. A timer should be incorporated into the charging circuit that will disconnect the charging current to prevent overcharging. Also, it is important to allow the battery to completely charge before removing the battery from the charger. 4. Avoid parallel charging of the batteries in cycle use. This may shorten the life of the batteries by causing an imbalance in the charge/discharge operation of the batteries. 5. Measure the total voltage of the batteries during trickle charge (or float charge), using a voltage meter. If the total voltage of the batteries provide an indication deviating from the specified voltage range, be sure to investigate the cause. If the total voltage is lower than that speci - fied, the batteries may lose their capacity because of a lack of sufficient charge. However, if the total voltage is higher than that specified, the batteries may lose their capacity by damage due to overcharge and may suffer from ‘thermal runaway’ and other accidents. 6. Switch off the equipment after use to prevent loss of performance or shortened life of the batteries due to damage by overdischarge. 7. When storing the batteries, be sure to remove them from the equipment or disconnect them from the charger and the load to prevent overdischarge and loss of capacity. Before storing batteries, charge the batteries fully. Do not store batteries in a highly humid place to prevent rust from forming on the terminals. MAINTENANCE Warning 1. When cleaning the batteries, use a soft damp cloth. A dry cloth may cause static electricity which could result in a fire or explosion. 2. Replace batteries with the new ones before the end of their useful life as determined in the specifica - tions. When the batteries are near the end of their life (50% state of their initial discharge duration time) the remaining life will shorten remarkably. Finally the batteries will lose their available capacity by either drying out their electrolyte (causing increase in their impedance) or an internal short-circuit. In such case, if the batteries go on charging, thermal runaway and/or leakage of electrolyte may occur. The batteries should be replaced before reaching these conditions. The expected life of the batteries (in trickle or float use) will decrease to half (50%) with each 10°C rise in 10 PRECAUTIONS FOR HANDLING VRLA BATTERIES temperature above 20°C. In particular, the life of the batteries will be shortened remarkably at approxi - mately 40°C. Accordingly, precautions are required to prevent the use of batteries at high temperatures. Caution 1. Avoid using organic solvents such as thinner, gasoline, lamp oil, or benzine, and liquid detergent to clean the batteries. These substances may cause the battery containers to crack or leak. Request 1. Keep the battery terminals clean in order to avoid inter - ruption in the discharge and/or to maintain the charge. TREATMENT AT EMERGENCY Warning 1. The batteries have toxic liquid – dilute sulfuric acid solution in them. If the acid comes into contact with skin or clothes, wash skin or cloth with lots of clean water to prevent scalding from occurring. If the acid should come into contact with the eyes, wash the eyes with lots of clean water and consult a physician immediately to prevent possible loss of sight. Caution 1. Check the batteries visually for any sign of irregu - larities in appearance. If any damage exists such as cracks, deformation, leakage of electrolyte, or corro - sion, the batteries must be replaced with the new ones. Irregularities in the batteries could result in bodily injury, electrolyte leakage, excessive heat generation, or explosion, if used. Furthermore, make sure the batteries are clean and free from dirt and dust. STORAGE Caution 1. Store the batteries in a fixed position separate from metal or other conductive materials. 2. Keep the batteries from rain water that could cause corrosion on the terminals of the batteries. 3. Keep the batteries right-side-up during transporta - tion and do not give any abnormally strong shock and jolt to the batteries. Transporting the batteries in an abnormal position or handling them roughly could destroy the batteries or cause their characteristics to deteriorate. 4. When storing the batteries, be sure to remove them from the equipment or disconnect them from the charger and the load, then store them at room temperature or lower temperature. Do not store the batteries at direct sunlight, higher temperature or high humidity. To do so cause the batteries short life, performance deteriora - tion or corrosion on terminals. Request 1. Charge the batteries at least once every twelve months if they are stored at 20°C. Use the charge method speci - fied in ‘4. Charging methods’. The interval of this charge should be reduced to 50% by each 10°C rise in tempera- ture above 20°C. The self-discharge rate doubles for each 10°C in temperature. If they are stored for a long time in a discharged state, their capacity may not recover even after charge. If the batteries are stored for more than a year at room temperature, the life of the batteries may be shortened. 2. Store the batteries starting from the fully charged state to prevent the life of the batteries being shortened. 3. Use the batteries as quickly as possible after receiving them as they gradually deteriorate even under proper storage conditions. DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING Caution 1. Please write the information about battery recycling on the equipment, the package, the carton, the instruction manual etc. in countries where legal or voluntary regu - lations on battery recycling are applicable. 2. Design the equipment such that exchange and disposal of the batteries can be undertaken easily. 3. Used batteries should be recycled. When returning used batteries, insulate their terminals using adhe - sive tape, etc. Even used batteries still have electrical charge and an explosion or a fire may occur, if proper insulation is not given on the terminals of the used batteries. 11 PRECAUTIONS FOR HANDLING VRLA BATTERIES SUPERIOR DESIGN AND LOW VOLTAGE SPREAD HIGHEST QUALITY CONTROL STANDARDS STATE-OF-THE-ART AGM TECHNOLOGY ENHANCED LIFESPAN DUE TO EXCELLENT RECOMBINATION EFFICIENCY OUTSTANDING QUALITY FOR DEMANDING APPLICATIONS BATTERY CONSTRUCTION Positive plates Positive plates are plate electrodes of which a grid frame of lead-calcium-tin alloy holds porous lead dioxide as the active material. The magnification of a positive active material is shown on following figure 1. Fig. 1 Magnification of positive active material Negative plates Negative plates are plate electrodes of which a grid frame of lead-calcium-tin alloy holds spongy lead as the active material. The magnification of a negative active material is shown on following figure 2. Fig. 2 Magnification of negative active material Electrolyte Diluted sulfuric acid is used as the medium for conducting ions in the electrochemical reaction in the battery. Some additives are included to keep good recovery perfor - mance after deep discharge. Separators Separators, which retain electrolyte and prevent shorting between positive and negative plates, adopt a non-woven fabric of fine glass fibers which is chemically stable in the diluted sulfuric acid electrolyte. Being highly porous, separators retain electrolyte for the reaction of active materials in the plates. Typical magnification of separator is shown in following figure 3. Fig. 3 Typical magnification of separator Vent (one way valve) The valve is comprised of a one-way valve made of material such as Neoprene. When gas is generated in the battery under extreme overcharge condition due to erroneous charging, charger malfunctions or other abnormalities, the vent opens to release excessive pres - sure in the battery and maintain the gas pressure within specific range (7.1 to 43.6kPa). During ordinary use of the battery, the vent is closed to shut out outside air and prevent oxygen in the air from reacting with the active material in the negative electrodes. Scan QR code to view product series video. 12 VRLA BATTERIES Positive and negative electrode terminals Positive and negative electrode terminals may be faston tab type, bolt fastening type or threaded post type, depending on the type of the battery. Sealing of the terminal is achieved by a structure which secures long adhesive-embedded paths and by the adoption of strong epoxy adhesives. For specific dimensions and shapes of terminals see page 24. Battery case materials and the design Materials of the body and cover of the battery case are ABS resins, unless otherwise specified. Since the inside of VRLA battery is pressurized and depressur - ized, stress occurs at the container and cover. The design according to the stress is designed to accom - modate the fluctuations in stress in the event the battery becomes deformed. The thickness of container, form, material and stress analysis are determined by utilization of computer aided engineering (CAE). This depicts the container design & strength. Destructive examinations using the molded container are also carried out. In other cases in which water in electrolyte liquid may penetrate through container in service life, the container design is put through water penetration tests. Fig. 4 CAD container design ELECTROCHEMICAL REACTIONS ON ELECTRODES The electrochemical reaction processes of the sealed lead acid battery (negative electrode recombination type) are described below. Where ‘charge’ is the operation of supplying the rechargeable battery with direct current from an external power source to change the active mate - rial in the negative plates chemically, and hence to store in the battery electric energy in the form of chemical energy. ‘Discharge’ is the operation of drawing out electric energy from the battery to operate external equipment. In the final stage of charging, an oxygen-generating reac - tion occurs at the positive plates. This oxygen transfers inside the battery, then is absorbed into the surface of the negative plates and consumed. These electrochemical reaction processes are expressed as follows. APPLICATIONS Standby / Back-up power applications • Communication equipment: base station, PBX, CATV, WLL, ONU, etc. • Back-up for power failure: UPS, ECR, computer system back-up, sequencers, etc. • Energy saving: solar and/or wind powered lanterns, wind powered advertising displays, etc. • Emergency equipment: lights, fire and burglar alarms, radios, fire shutters, stop-position controls (for machines and elevators), etc. BATTERY CASE MATERIALS (EXAMPLE LC-R SERIES) *1 1 Negative plate terminal 2 Seals 3 Positive plate terminal 4 Battery case 5 Positive electrode 6 Separator 7 Negative electrode 8 Valve Scan QR code to view 3D animated video. 2 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 *1 The illustration shows only one example of VRLA battery structure. Fig. 5 13 VRLA BATTERIES *1 When any medical equipment incorporating a Panasonic VRLA battery is planned, please contact Panasonic. FEATURES Leak-resistant structure A required-minimum quantity of electrolyte is impreg - nated into, and retained by, the positive and negative plates and the separators; therefore electrolyte does not flow freely. Also, the terminal has a sealed structure secured by long adhesive-embedded paths and by the adoption of strong epoxy adhesives which makes the battery leak-resistant. Note: In standby/back-up uses, if the battery continues to be used beyond the point where discharge duration has decreased to 50% of the initial (i.e. life judgment criteria), cracking of the battery case may occur, resulting in leakage of the electrolyte. Easy maintenance Unlike conventional batteries in which electrolyte can flow freely, VRLA batteries do not need the specific- gravity check of the electrolyte or the water top up maintenance, this allows the battery to function fully with the minimum of maintenance. No sulfuric acid mist or gases Unlike conventional batteries in which electrolyte can flow freely, VRLA batteries generate no Sulphuric acid mist or gases under Panasonic recommended use conditions. If used under conditions other than recommended then gas generation may occur, therefore do not design the battery housing in a closed structure. Exceptional deep discharge recovery Our VRLA batteries show exceptional rechargeablity even after deep discharge, which is often caused by failure to turn off the equipment switch, followed by standing (approx. 1 month at room temperature is assumed). (Positive electrode) (Negat ive electrode) (Electrolyt e) Discharge Charge )retaW()etaflus daeL()dica cirufluS()daeL()edixoid daeL( (Lead s ulfate) (Positive electrode) (Negat ive electrode) (Electrolyt e) Pb 2H O2PbSO4 PbSO4PbO 2 2H SO2 42 ++ ++ (Positive electrode) (Negat ive electrode) Charge (Lead dioxide) (Lead sulfate) (Lead sulfate) O 2PbSO 4 PbSO 4 Gas recombinat ion reaction cycle Charge Overcharge (Oxygen) (Lead) Reaction 2PbO 2Pb(O ) Fig. 6 Charge / discharge chemical equation Fig. 7 Recombination chemical equation 14 VRLA BATTERIES CHARGING Charge characteristics (constant voltage-constant current charging) of VRLA batteries are exemplified in the figure 1. In order to fully utilize the characteristics of VRLA batteries, constant-voltage charging is recommended. For details of charging see pages 20 – 23. Fig. 1 Constant-voltage charge characteristics by current (example) DISCHARGING Discharge current and discharge cut-off voltage Recommended cut-off voltages for 6V and 12V batteries consistent with discharge rates are given in the figure 2. With smaller discharge currents, the active materials in the battery work effectively, therefore discharge cut-off voltages are set to the higher side for controlling overdis - charge. For larger discharge currents, on the contrary, cut-off voltages are set to the lower side. Note: Discharge cut-off voltages given are recommended values. Fig. 2 Discharge current vs. cut-off voltage Discharge temperature Control the ambient temperature during discharge within the range from -15°C to 50°C for the reason described below. Batteries operate on electrochemical reaction which converts chemical energy to electric energy. The electro - chemical reaction is reduced as the temperature lowers, thus, available discharge capacity is greatly reduced at temperatures as low as -15°C. For the high temperature side, on the other hand, the discharge temperature should not exceed 50°C in order to prevent deformation of resin materials which house the battery or deterioration of service life. Effect of temperature on discharge characteristics Available discharge capacity of the battery varies with ambient temperature and discharge current as shown in the figure 3. Fig. 3 Discharge capacity by temperature and by discharge current Discharge current Discharge capability of batteries is expressed by the 20 hours rate (rated capacity). Select the battery for specific equipment so that the discharge current during use of the equipment falls within the range between 1/20 of the 20 hours rate value and 3 times that (1/20CA to 3CA): discharging beyond this range may result in a marked decrease of discharge capacity or reduction in the number of times of repeatable discharge. When discharging the battery beyond said range, please consult Panasonic in advance. Depth of discharge Depth of discharge is the state of discharge expressed by the ratio of amount of capacity discharged to the rated capacity. ( T e s t condi tio n ) Dis c h a r g e : 0 . 0 5 CA cons tan t - c u rre n t dis c h a r g e C u t-o ff vo l t a g e ; 1. 7 5 V/ce l l C h arg e : 2. 4 5 V/cell 2 .30 V / cel l T empe r atu r e : 20˚C 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 2.5 2.0 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 C u r r e n t V olta g e C har ge t ime ( h our s ) (CA) ( V / c e ll) ~~ ~~ Discharge current (CA) Discharge cut-off voltage (12V battery) Discharge cut-off voltage (6V batt ery) 5.4 5.2 5.0 4.8 4.6 4.4 4.2 4.0 10.8 10.4 10.0 9.6 9.2 8.8 8.4 8.0 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 1 2 3 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 C apacity (%) Temp erature <˚C > 0.05C A 0.1C A 0.25C A 1C A 15 CHARACTERISTICS STORAGE Storage condition Observe the following condition when the battery needs to be stored. 1. Ambient temperature: -15°C to 40°C (preferably below 30°C) 2. Relative humidity: 25 to 85% 3. Storage place free from vibration, dust, direct sunlight, and moisture. Self-discharge and refresh charge During storage, batteries gradually lose their capacity due to self-discharge, therefore the capacity after storage is lower than the initial capacity. For the recovery of capacity, repeat charge/discharge several times for the battery in cycle use; for the battery in trickle use, continue charging the battery as loaded in the equipment for 48 to 72 hours. Refresh charge (auxiliary charge) When it is unavoidable to store the battery for 3 months or longer, periodically recharge the battery at the intervals recommended in the table below depending on ambient temperature. Avoid storing the battery for more than 12 months. Residual capacity after storage The result of testing the residual capacity of the battery which, after fully charged, has been left standing in the open-circuit state for a specific period at a specific ambient temperature is shown in the figure below. The self-discharge rate is very much dependent on the ambient temperature of storage. The higher the ambient tempera - ture, the less the residual capacity after storage for a specific period. Self-discharge rate almost doubles by each 10°C rise of storage temperature figure 4 . Fig. 4 Residual capacity test result Open circuit voltage vs. residual capacity Residual capacity of the battery can be roughly estimated by measuring the open circuit voltage as shown in the figure 5. Fig. 5 Open circuit voltage vs. residual capacity 20°C IMPEDANCE The impedance is an important parameter of batteries. Impe dance varies with the state of charge of the battery and temperature as shown on the chart below. Fig. 6 Relationship between impedance and state of charge Fig. 7 Relationship between impedance and temperature 40°C 30 °C 20 °C 100 80 60 40 20 0 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 Storage t ime (months) Residual capacity(%) Storage temperature Interval of auxiliary charge (refresh charge) Below 20°C 12 months 20°C to 30°C 9 months 20°C to 40°C 6 months ( T emper a t ure: 20˚C) 7 . 0 0 6 . 7 5 6 . 5 0 6 . 2 5 6 . 0 0 5 . 7 5 5 . 5 0 5 . 2 5 5 . 0 0 14. 0 13. 5 13. 0 12. 5 12. 0 11. 5 11. 0 10. 5 10. 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 Residual capacit y (%) O pen circuit volt age (6V batte r y ) O pen circuit volt age (12V batte r y ) 300 280 260 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 0 20 40 60 80 100 St at e of char ge (% in C 20 ) Impedanc e (%) 160 180 140 120 100 80 60 -20 0 20 40 60 Ambient temperature (in °C) Impedanc e (%) 300 280 260 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 0 20 40 60 80 100 St at e of char ge (% in C 20 ) Impedanc e (%) 160 180 140 120 100 80 60 -20 0 20 40 60 Ambient temperature (in °C) Impedanc e (%) 16 CHARACTERISTICS TEMPERATURE CONDITIONS Recommended temperature ranges for charging, dis charging and storing the battery are tabulated below. BATTERY LIFE Trickle (float) life Trickle life of the battery is largely dependent on the temperature condition of the equipment in which the battery is used, and also related to the type of the battery, charge voltage and discharge current. The respective figures show the influence of temperature on trickle life of the battery, an example of trickle (float) life character - istics of the battery, and the test result of the battery life in an emergency lamp. Fig. 8 Trickle life characteristics at 50°C Fig. 9 Influence of temperature on trickle life Charge 0°C ~ 40°C Discharge -15°C ~ 50°C Discharge -15°C ~ 40°C 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 T emper a t ure ( ˚C ) S e r v i c e lif e (y ears) 1 5 1 0 6 3 1 0 . 5 0 . 1 T e st condit ion Dischar ge: 0 . 25CA Cut-o ff volt age: 1 . 7 V/2 V Charge: 2 . 275V/ 2 V Const ant - volt age cont rol: 0 . 2CA Discharge frequency: once e ve r y 21 d a y s T r i c kle long- lif e ser ies Con vent ional product s 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 50 ˚C discharge per iod (mont hs) Con version to 2 0 ˚C and EUROBAT conditions per iod ( y ears) Dur a t ion o f discharge (min u t es) 300 250 200 150 100 5 0 0 0 3 6 9 10 12 T e st condit ion Dischar ge: 0 . 25CA, end volt age: 1 . 7 V/2 V Char ging: 2 . 275V/2 V , Constant-volt age control, C u rrent : 0 . 15CA Con vent ional p r oducts T r i c k le long- lif e se r ies 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 T emper a t ure ( ˚C ) S e r v i c e lif e (y ears) 1 5 1 0 6 3 1 0 . 5 0 . 1 T e st condit ion Dischar ge: 0 . 25CA Cut-o ff volt age: 1 . 7 V/2 V Charge: 2 . 275V/ 2 V Const ant - volt age cont rol: 0 . 2CA Discharge frequency: once e ve r y 21 d a y s T r i c kle long- lif e ser ies Con vent ional product s 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 50 ˚C discharge per iod (mont hs) Con version to 2 0 ˚C and EUROBAT conditions per iod ( y ears) Dur a t ion o f discharge (min u t es) 300 250 200 150 100 5 0 0 0 3 6 9 10 12 T e st condit ion Dischar ge: 0 . 25CA, end volt age: 1 . 7 V/2 V Char ging: 2 . 275V/2 V , Constant-volt age control, C u rrent : 0 . 15CA Con vent ional p r oducts T r i c k le long- lif e se r ies 17 CHARACTERISTICS Methods of charging the Valve-Regulated-Lead-Acid battery For charging the Valve-Regulated-Lead-Acid battery, a well matched charger should be used because the capacity and life of the battery is influenced by ambient temperature, charge voltage and other parameters. Standby/back-up use (trickle use) The application load is supplied with power from AC sources in normal state. Standby/back-up use is to maintain the battery system at all times so that it can supply power to the load in case the AC input is disrupted (such as a power failure). There are two methods of charging for this use. a Trickle charging (compensating charging) In this charge system, the battery is disconnected from the load and kept charged with a small current only for compen - sating self-discharge while AC power is alive. In case of power failure, the battery is automatically connected to the load and battery power is supplied. This system is applied mainly as a spare power source for emergency equipment. In this use, if rapid recovery of the battery after discharge is required, it is necessary to consider the recovery charge with a comparatively large current followed by trickle charge, or alternative measures. While the type and capacity of the battery is determined by the back-up time and the load (current consumption) during power failure, some reserve power should be taken into account considering such factors as ambient temperature, capability of the charger and depth of discharge. Fig. 1 Trickle charge system model b Float charging Float system is the system in which the battery and the load are connected in parallel to the rectifier, which should supply a constant power. Fig. 2 Float charge system model In the above-illustrated model, output current of the rectifier is expressed as: lo = lc + lL where lc is charge current and lL is load current. Consideration should be given to secure adequate charging because, in fact, load current is not constant but irregular in most cases. In the float system, capacity of the constant-voltage power source should be more than sufficient against the load. Usually, the rectifier capacity is set at the sum of the normal load current plus the current needed in order to charge the battery. Precautions on charging 1. As the battery continues to be charged over a long period, a small difference in charging voltage may result in a significant difference in the battery life. Therefore, charge voltage should be controlled within a narrow range and with little variation for a long period. 2. As charge characteristics of the battery are dependent on temperature, compensation for temperature variation is required when the battery is used over a broad tempera - ture range, and the system should be designed so that the battery and the charger are kept at the same temperature. Load Power detection relay Rectifier Battery AC AC Rectifier Load I0 IL IC Standby power source (trickle use) Trickle charging (compensating charging) Float charging a b 18 CHARGING METHODS Precautions on charging 1. (a) In constant voltage charging (cycle use): Initial current should be 0.4CA or smaller (C: rated capacity) (b) In constant voltage charging (trickle use): Initial current should be 0.15CA or smaller (C: rated capacity). 2. Relation between standard voltage value in constant voltage charging and temperature is given in the table. Relation between standard voltage value in constant voltage charging and temperature Temperature compensation of charge voltage Charge voltage should be compensated to the ambient temperature near the battery, as shown by the figure below. Main reasons for the temperature compensation of charge voltage are to prevent the thermal runaway of the battery when it is used in high temperature conditions and to secure sufficient charging of the battery when it is used in low temperature conditions. Prolongation of service life of the battery by the above-described temperature compensation is expected as follows: ⃝ At 30°C: prolonged by approx. 5% ⃝ At 35°C: prolonged by approx. 10% ⃝ At 40°C: prolonged by approx. 15% In low temperature zones below 20°C, no substantial prolongation of the battery life can be expected by the temperature compensation of charge voltage. Charging time Time required to complete charging depends on factors such as depth of discharge of the battery, characteris - tics of the charger and ambient temperature. For cycle charge, charging time can be estimated as follows: 1. If the discharge current was 0.25CA or greater: Tch = Cdis / I + (3h to 5h) 2. If the discharge current was below 0.25CA: Tch = Cdis / I + (6h to 10h), where Tch: Charging time required (hours) Cdis: Amount of discharge before this charging (Ah) I: Initial charge current (A) Charging temperature 1. Charge the battery at an ambient temperature in the range from 0°C to 40°C. 2. Optimum temperature range for charging is 5°C to 35°C. 3. Charging at 0°C or below and 40°C or higher is not recommended: at low temperatures, the battery may not be charged adequately; at high temperatures, the battery may become deformed. 4. For temperature compensation values, see table ‘Relation between standard ... ’ in the left column. Fig. 3 Compensated voltage value Application / charging method Normal charging in 6 or more hours; constant voltage control Constant current control Trickle use Control voltage: 6.8 to 6.9/6V battery 13.6 to 13.8V/12V battery Float use Control voltage: 6.8 to 6.9/6V battery; 13.6 to 13.8V/12V battery. Float charging compensates for load fluctuations. Refresh charge (auxiliary charge)*1 When charging two or more batteries at a time, select only those which have been left under the same condition. Charging with current of approx. 0.1CA Application example General uses, cellular phones (bag phones), UPS, lanterns, electric tools CHARGING METHODS AND APPLICATIONS OF VRLA BATTERIES 0°C 20°C 40°C Cycle use 6V 7.7 7.4 7.1 12V 15.4 14.7 14.2 Trickle use 6V 7.1 6.8 6.7 12V 14.1 13.7 13.4 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 Temperature (˚C) Charge voltage/cell 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.2 Minimum voltage Maximum voltageTrickle use *1 Refresh (auxiliary) charge amount should be 120 to 130% of self-discharge amount. For details, please contact us. 19 CHARGING METHODS Reverse charging Never charge the battery in reverse, as it may cause leakage, heating or bursting of the battery. Overcharging Overcharge is an additional charge after the battery is fully charged. Continued overcharging shortens the battery life. Select a charge method which is specified or approved for each application. Fig. 4 Output V-l characteristics of the constant voltage charger vs. charging pattern of the battery Charging before use Recharge the battery before use to compensate for capacity loss due to self-discharge during storage. See ‘Refresh charge (auxiliary charge)’ table on page 18. Characteristics of constant voltage chargers Even with the same voltage set-up, charging time varies with output V-l characteristics. Precautions 1. When adopting charging methods and charging con- ditions other than those described in the specifications or the brochures, thoroughly check charging/discharging characteristics and life characteristics of the battery in advance. Selection of appropriate methods and condi - tions of charging is essential for safe use of the battery and for fully utilizing its discharge characteristics. 2. In cyclic use of the battery, use a charger equipped with a charging timer or a charger in which charging time or charge amount is controlled by other means; otherwise, it will be difficult to judge the completion of the charge. Use of a charger as described above is recommended to prevent undercharge or overcharge which may cause deterioration of the battery characteristics. 3. Continue charging the battery for the specified time or until the charge completion lamp, if equipped, indicates completion of charging. Interruption of charging may cause a shortening of service life. 4. Do not recharge the fully charged battery repeatedly, as overcharge may accelerate deterioration of the battery. 5. In cyclic use of the battery, do not continue charging for 24 hours or longer, as it may accelerate deterioration of the battery. 6. In cyclic service of the battery, avoid charging two or more batteries connected in parallel simultaneously: imbalance of charge/discharge amount among the batteries may shorten the life of batteries. Time I V V V I TimeI V Time Time V I I I I I V VV A.C. 100V TR 15.5V 0.8A D 2A D 2A C 50V 470uF D R 33K 1/4W Q LED R 1.2K 1/4W R 5.6K 1/4W D 1.2V R56 1/4W Q C 50V 10,000PF R56 1/4W Q 1.2 R1/4W ZD 5V 500W Q R 1K 1/4W VR 500 0.1W C 25V 47uF R 1K 1/4W R R 5.6K 1/4W Q D 1A 200V 2.2K 1/4W Fig. 5 Example of constant voltage charger circuitry (concept diagram) 20 CHARGING METHODS Fig. 5 Example of constant voltage charger circuitry (concept diagram) Item Test method Check point 1. Shock test (drop test) IEC 61056-1 and JIS C 8702 (These specifications are harmonized each other) A fully charged battery is allowed to drop in the upright position from the height of 20cm onto a hard board having a thickness of 10mm or more. Test is repeated three times. The battery should bee free from noticeable breaka- ge or leaks; and its terminal voltage should be held higher than the nominal voltage. 2. Vibration test IEC 61056-1 and JIS C 8702 (These specifications are harmonized each other) A vibration frequency 1,000 times/minute and am- plitude 4mm (equals 2.2g of force) is applied to the X-, Y- and Z-axis directions of a fully charged battery for 60 minutes respectively. No battery part should be broken; the battery should be free from leaks; and its terminal voltage should be held higher than the nominal voltage. 3. Oven test Panasonic internal standard A fully charged battery is left standing in an atmos- phere of 70°C for 10 hours. The battery case should not be deformed; the battery should be free from leaks. 4. Coldproof test Panasonic internal standard A fully charged battery is connected to a resistor equivalent to 60 hours rate discharge and left for 4 days; then the battery is left standing in an atmos- phere of -30°C for 24 hours. No crack should develop in the battery case; the battery should be free from leaks. 5. Heat cycle test Panasonic internal standard A fully charged battery is exposed to 10 cycles of 2 hours at -40°C and 2 hours at 65°C. No crack should develop in the battery case; the battery should be free from leaks. 6. Short circuit test Panasonic internal standard A fully charged battery connected with a small resi- stor of 10 ohms or less is allowed to discharge. The battery must not burn nor bust. 7. Large current discharge test Panasonic internal standard A fully charged battery is allowed to discharge at 3CA to 4.8V/6V battery level. (This test is not appli- cable to batteries having built-in thermostat.) The battery should not burn or bust, and it should be free from battery case deformation, leaks and any irregularity internal connections. 8. Vent valve function test UL1989 A fully charged battery is submerged in liquid paraffin in a container, then overcharged at 0.4CA. (UL1989) Release of gas from the vent should be observed. 9. Overcharge test Panasonic internal standard A fully charged battery is overcharged at 0.1CA for 48 hours, left standing for one hour, and allowed to discharge at 0.05CA to 5.25V/6V. No irregularity should be noticed in the battery appearance; the battery should retain 95% or more of the initial capacity. VRLA battery safety test items SAFETY DESIGN Vent (one way valve) If the internal pressure of the battery is raised to an abnormal level, the rubber one way valve opens to release excessive pressure; thus the valve protects the battery from danger of bursting. Since the rubber valve is instantly resealable, the valve can perform its function repeatedly whenever required. Fig. 1 Example of valve construction VRLA batteries are inherently safe. However, there are some risks when VRLAs are used beyond a reasonable replacement time span, misapplied or abused. There are two main failure mode of VRLA battery used for trickle (float) application. In high temperatures and/or high voltage charging, dry-out is accelerated. This leads to loss of capacity and eventually the cell will fail open. Grid growth due to grid corrosion causes loss in mechanical strength and eventually leads to loss of contact with the grid. Battery should be replaced before these failures. If VRLA batteries are used after the end of life, the grid growth may cause a crack of container. Capillary action can result in a slight film of conductive electrolyte forming around the crack even though VRLA batteries contain significantly lower volumes of electrolyte and the electrolyte is immobilized. This electrolyte film will be in contact with an uninsulated metal component and this ground fault current could result in thermal runaway of a portion of the string or even a fire. And the grid growth may cause internal short between positive grid and nega - tive strap in a cell. Continuing to charge a string of cells when one or more of the cells exhibit internal shorts, Valve retainer Top cover Cover Rubber one-way valve Paper O-ring 21 SAFETY / SAFETY DESIGN can result in thermal runaway. For example, assume a string of 12 cells is being charged at 27.3V (2.275V/ cell) and the string continues in operation with two cells shorted. In this situation the average charging voltage on the remaining 10 good cells is 2.73V/cell. This will result in very high float current and cause thermal runaway. Figure 2 is the mechanism of above phenomena. Panasonic VRLA battery minimizes these risks by using less corrosive lead alloy and expanded positive grid. Figure 3 shows an example of cast grid and expanded grid. Expanded grid does not have enough strength to crack container case by grid growth. And an insulator between positive grid and negative strap is installed in the models as necessary. Furthermore, Panasonic uses flame-retardant battery container case for the models used for standby applica - tion. The cases are designed to be self-extinguishing and meet minimum flammability standards of UL94 V-0 and 28 L.O.I. (Limiting Oxygen Index). Figure 4 is the picture of self-extinguishing phenomenon. Fig. 2 Mechanism of thermal runaway caused by grid growth Fig. 3 Comparison of cast grid and expanded grid Fig. 4 Flame-retardant case (self-extinguish phenomenon)Container case crack Expansion of positive grid Short circuit between nega- tive strap and positive grid Several cell´s short-circuit Continuous operation at high voltage Thermal runaway Internal short circuit strap strap Expansion of positive grid (In case of continuous operation after the life end) Expansion of positive grid Container case crack Electrolyte leakage Ground fault current Thermal runaway Cast grid Expanded grid 1. Safety & reliability (improved) 2. Corrosion resistance (improved) 3. Small discharge dispersion Grid expansion is limited Flame-retardant ABS (UL94 V-0) Standard ABS (UL94 HB) Burnt 22 SAFETY / SAFETY DESIGN TERMINAL MATERIAL Bolt & nut: Lead Alloy (Proposition 65 Warning: Battery posts, terminals and related accessories contain lead and lead compounds, and handling this product may also expose you to Sulfuric acid mist, chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer and reproductive harm. Wash hands after handling.) Threaded: Tin plated steel all other: lead BOLT AND NUT TYPE Type of terminal Terminal thickness A (1) Height from battery case top Terminal width Hole diameter Hole position Bolt B1 (1) B2 (2) Distance from top E1 (1) Distance from top E2 (2) Distance from terminal top E3 (2) Diameter F1 (3) Pitch Length F2 (3) M5 bolt and nut 5.0 ± 0.3 1.0 – 11 ± 0.4 5.5 ± 0.3 6.5 – 5.5 ± 0.3 M5 P = 0.8 15 ± 1.0 M6 bolt and nut 8.0 ± 0.5 5.0 16.5 ± 1.5 16 ± 0.8 6.5 ± 0.4 – 9 ± 1.0 7.5 ± 0.4 M6 P = 1.0 20 ± 1.0 M8 bolt and nut 8.0 ± 0.5 – 24 ± 1.5 – 6.5 ± 0.4 – 14 ± 1.0 10 ± 0.4 M8 P = 1.25 20 ± 1.0 L-shape terminal (M5, M6, M8) All dimensions in mm. F1 F2 (3) B2 E3 E2 A(2)(1) A B1 E1E3 Unit: inch (mm) M5 threaded post type 0.386 (9.8) M5-bolt P = 0.031 (0.8) 23 TERMINAL DATA PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS Alarm security market / VdS approved batteries UL approved batteries All our VRLA batteries are in compliance with UL 1989 (standby batteries) – file number MH 13723. UL 1989 re quires that the battery is free from the hazard of bursting, that is, when the battery is overcharged the vent valve opens to release internal pressure. FACTORY CERTIFICATIONS ISO 9001 / ISO 14001 Quality management system (ISO 9001) defines what the organization does to ensure that its products or services satisfy the customer’s quality requirements and comply with any regulations applicable to those products or services. ISO 14001 is primarily concerned with ‘environ - mental ma n agement’. In plain language, this means what the organization does to minimize harmful effects on the environment caused by its activities. OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 is an Occupation Health and Safety Ass ess- ment Series for health and safety management systems. It is intended to help organizations to control occupational health and safety risks. It was developed in response to widespread demand for a recognized standard against which to be certified and assessed. APPLICABLE STANDARDS Following documents are established by consensus and approved by a recognized body, that provides, for common and repeated use, rules, guidelines or characteristics for activities or their results, aimed at the achievement of the optimum degree of order in a given context. Note: Standards should be based on the consolidated results of science, technology and experience, and aimed at the promotion of optimum community bene - fits. IEC standards cover a vast range of technologies from power generation, transmission and distribution to home appliances and office equipment, semiconductors, fibre optics, batteries, solar energy, nanotechnology and marine energy as well as many others. IEC standards are also being adopted as harmonized stand ards by other certifying bodies such as BSI (Great Britain), CSA (Canada), UL & ANSI/INCITS (USA), SABS (South Africa), SAI (Australia), SPC/GB (China), DIN (Germany) and JIS (Japan). IEC standards harmonized by other certifying bodies generally have some noted differences from the original IEC standard. JIS (Japan Industrial Standard) All our VRLA batteries are in compliance with JIS C 8702 (almost harmonized with IEC 61056). IEC 61056 Specifies the general requirements, functional char - acteristics and methods of test for all general purpose lead acid cells and batteries of the valve regulated type for either cyclic or float charge application; in portable equipment, for instance, incorporated in tools, toys, or in static emergency, or uninterruptible power supply and general power supplies. The cells of this kind of lead acid battery may either have flat-plate electrodes in prismatic containers or have spirally wound pairs of electrodes in cylindrical containers. The sulfuric acid in these cells is immobilized between the electrodes either by absorption in a micropo - rous structure or in a gelled form. IEC 61056-1 General purpose lead acid batteries (Valve-Regulated types) - part 1: general requirements, functional charac - teristics - methods of test IEC 61056-2 General purpose lead acid batteries (Valve-Regulated types) - part 2: dimensions, terminals and marking IEC 60896-21 Stationary lead acid batteries - part 21: Valve-Regulated types - methods of test This part of IEC 60896 applies to all stationary lead acid cell and monobloc batteries of the Valve-Regulated type for float charge applications, (i.e. permanently connected to a load and to a d.c. power supply), in a static location, (i.e. not generally intended to be moved from place to place) and incorporated into stationary equipment or installed in battery rooms for use in telecom uninter - ruptible power supply (UPS), utility switching, emergency power, or similar applications. IEC 60896-22 Stationary lead acid batteries - part 22: Valve-Regulated types - requirements Same as above, but defining the requirements. Following standards are adopted as harmonized stand - ards. EN 50272-2 (DIN VDE 0510 part 2) Safety requirements for secondary batteries and battery Model number Nominal voltage (V) Rated capa- city (Ah) VdS N° Country of origin LC-PD1217PG/APG 12 17.0 G104101 China LC-P1224PG/APG 12 24.0 G198049 China LC-P1238PG/APG 12 38.0 G100002 China 24 STANDARDS installations. Safety requirements for batteries and battery systems-stationary batteries. The ventilation requirements for safety rooms are specified herein. Apply the VRLA formula together with our batteries. UN2800 Transport regulations All Panasonic VRLA batteries listed in this handbook comply with ADR/IMDG SP 238 (road/sea) and IATA SP A67 and PI 806 (air). These batteries have to be handled as non-dangerous goods (non-spillable). 1 Lotcode (internal) 2 Datecode (format YYMMDD + shift indication letter) 3 Brand name 4 Type of battery 5 Model number 6 Rated voltage & capacity 7 Flame-retardant ABS (UL94 V-0) mark 8 Charging recommendation 9 Recycling mark (US) 10 Caution 11 Manufacturer name & country of origin 12 China RoHS markings 13 VdS marking 14 Recognized component mark (UL mark) 15 Recycling mark (JP) 16 Recycling mark (EU) BATTERY LABEL DESIGN 3 1 2 13 12 14 12 15 16 4 5 7 8 9 10 11 6 25 STANDARDS / BATTERY LABEL DESIGN 26 STEPS FOR SELECTING BATTERIES ARE DESCRIBED BELOW Study of required specifications (draft) Study the required specifications (draft) by checking the requirements for the battery with the battery selection criteria. Technical requirements for selecting the battery are presented below. Battery selection First, select several candidate batteries by referring to the technical brochures and data sheets of the batteries pres - ently available. Then from the candidates select a battery which can meet as many of the ideal requirements as possible. In fact, however, battery selection can be seldom made so smoothly. Practically, possible removal or easing of the requirements should be considered first; then depending on the result, a proper battery should be select - ed from those presently available. This way of proceeding enables economic selection of the battery. Any questions at this stage should be asked to battery engineers in depth. Sometimes, new or improved batteries which are not carried in the brochures have become available, and an appropriate battery may be found among them. Usually, required specifications are finalized at this stage. Request for improving or developing batteries If no battery which will satisfy special requirements can be found by the approach described above, requests for improving or developing new batteries should be made to our technical department, and these requests should be coordinated as quickly as possible to allow enough time for studying: the study takes usually 6 to 12 months or even longer depending on the request. In this section, guidelines for selecting appropriate batteries for specific equipment were mentioned. If further information regard - ing the battery selection is required, please contact us. BATTERY SELECTION TECHNOLOGICAL FACTORS CONCERNING BATTERY SELECTION ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS Voltage range _____V max. _____V min. Load pattern Continuous load ___________mA (max.) ___________mA (av.) ___________mA (min.) Intermittent load/pulse load ___________mA (max.) ___________mA (av.) ___________mA (min.) Intermittent time conditions Operating time ___________ Stopped time ___________ CHARGE CONDITIONS • Rapid charge • Trickle float charge • Charge time • Charge temperature and atmosphere TEMPERATURE AND HUMIDITY CONDITIONS Temperature and humidity during use _____°C max._____°C min. _____% max. _____% min. Temperature and humidity during storage _____°C max._____°C min. _____% max. _____% min. BATTERY LIFE Operating life _______________ Storage period _______________ SELECTION OF THE BATTERY SIZE, WEIGHT AND TERMINAL TYPE Diameter (mm)_______max. Height (mm)_______max. Length (mm)_______max. Width (mm)_______max. Mass (g)__________av. Terminal type __________ OTHERS Atmospheric pressure Mechanical conditions Safety _______________ Interchangeability Marketability Price APPLICATIONS • UPS • Communication infrastructure • Alarm systems • Medical equipment • Emergency lights, etc. FEATURES • State-of-the-art Absorbed Glass Mat (AGM) technology • Superior design and low voltage spread • Enhanced lifespan due to excellent recombination efficiency • Highest quality control standards • Almost 50 years of experience in production • Selected batteries with flame-retardant battery containers according to UL94 V-0 • Various VdS approved batteries Model number Nominal voltage (V) Nominal capacity (Ah) 20 hours rate Length (mm) Width (mm) Total height (mm) Weight (kg) VdS number Page LC-PD1217PG/APG 12 17.0 76 181 167 5.45 G104101 28 LC-P1220P/AP 12 20.0 76 181 167 5.90 - 30 LC-P1224PG/APG 12 24.0 125 165 179.5/175 8.05 G198049 32 LC-P1228P/AP 12 28.0 125 165 179.5/175 9.40 - 34 LC-P1238PG/APG 12 38.0 165 197 180/175 12.5 G100002 36 LC-P1242P/AP 12 42.0 165 197 180/175 13.5 - 38 LC-P1275P 12 75 166 350 175 21.5 - 40 LC-P12120P 12 120 173 407 236 34.5 - 42 LC-P12150BP*1 12 150 183 532 214 43.0 - 44 LC-P12200BP*1 12 200 237 533 216 57.0 - 46 LC-P SERIES – TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE 10–12 YEARS MODEL NUMBER (EXAMPLE) LC VRLA battery - PD Trickle long-life type, frame-retardant, advanced design 12 12 V 17 17 Ah APG Threaded posts, English label, VdS certified product *1 This battery is equipped with insert terminals. These batteries feature a stable performance and have been designed with safety in mind. Furthermore, they are equipped with a flame-retardant battery container (ABS UL94 V-0) and some battery types are obtainable with different terminals. They are widely used in back-up systems, energy storage systems, etc. 27 BATTERY INDEX DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: Flame-retardant (UL94V-0). FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE LIFE: 6 YEARS AT 25°C, 10 YEARS AT 20°C. Specifications LC-PD1217PG/APG Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 17.0 Dimensions Length (mm) 181 Width (mm) 76 Total height (mm) 167 Approx. mass (kg) 5.45 Terminal type M5 bolt/nut & threaded post Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 17.0 10 hours rate (Ah) 16.0 3 hours rate (Ah) 13.0 1 hour rate (Ah) 11.0 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 17 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 0.1 0.3 1 31 03 0 100 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 11 12.5 M5 M5 11.8 1.711.8 167±2 181±2 76±2 112.7 (179.5) (74.5) (A)(L) LC-PD1217PG/APG Terminal type (option) Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 72.2 47.0 37.7 29.0 21.5 15.1 12.0 8.26 6.37 4.72 3.61 2.97 2.39 1.65 0.857 9.9V 67.8 46.0 36.9 28.6 21.2 15.0 11.9 8.10 6.33 4.70 3.59 2.95 2.38 1.64 0.855 10.2V 63.5 44.9 35.5 28.1 21.0 14.9 11.7 7.93 6.16 4.65 3.57 2.93 2.36 1.63 0.852 10.5V 56.9 41.6 34.8 26.7 20.5 14.6 11.6 7.77 5.95 4.58 3.54 2.90 2.33 1.62 0.850 10.8V 50.3 37.1 34.1 26.0 19.8 14.4 11.3 7.56 5.67 4.49 3.49 2.83 2.29 1.60 0.845 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 806 526 402 337 251 177 142 97.6 75.5 56.2 43.2 35.6 28.6 19.0 10.3 9.9V 756 516 399 331 249 176 140 95.6 74.9 55.9 42.9 35.4 28.5 18.9 10.3 10.2V 708 502 391 326 246 175 139 93.7 73.0 55.4 42.6 35.1 28.3 18.7 10.2 10.5V 634 465 364 309 240 172 136 91.7 70.4 54.5 42.3 34.8 28.0 18.6 10.2 10.8V 561 415 339 301 232 169 134 89.2 67.1 53.4 41.8 33.9 27.5 18.4 10.1 G104101 28 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 — — — — 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 17.0A51.0A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 4.25A 0.850A (min.) (h) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 — — — — 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 17.0A51.0A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 4.25A 0.850A (min.) (h) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 — — — — 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 17.0A51.0A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 4.25A 0.850A (min.) (h) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 — — — — 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 17.0A51.0A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 4.25A 0.850A (min.) (h) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 — — — — 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 17.0A51.0A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 4.25A 0.850A (min.) (h) Discharge current 0.850A - 3.40A 3.40A - 8.50A 8.50A - 17.0A 17.0A - 34.0A 34.0A - 51.0A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 2.55A or smaller LC-PD1217PG/APG 29 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS Due to the potential energy stored in the batteries, Please read ‘Precautions for handling the Rechargeable Valve Regulated Lead Acid Batteries’ before using batteries. If improper handling or use of the batteries without understanding ‘Precautions for handling the Rechargeable Valve Regulated Lead Acid Batteries’ may result in bodily injury caused by electrolyte leakage, heat generation, or explosion. DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P1220P/AP Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 20.0 Dimensions Length (mm) 76 Width (mm) 181 Total height (mm) 167 Approx. mass (kg) 5.90 Terminal type M5 bolt/nut & threaded post Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 20.0 10 hours rate (Ah) 17.0 3 hours rate (Ah) 15.0 1 hour rate (Ah) 12.0 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 15 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 0.1 0.3 1 31 03 0 100 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 181±2 112.7 (179.5) 11 12.5 M5 M5 11.8 (A)(L) 1.711.8 167±2 76±2 (74.5) LC-P1220P/AP Terminal type (option) Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 853 557 425 357 266 188 150 103 83.1 61.9 47.5 39.2 31.5 21.6 11.7 9.9V 800 546 423 351 263 186 148 101 82.5 61.5 47.2 38.9 31.4 21.5 11.7 10.2V 750 532 414 345 260 185 146 99.1 80.3 60.9 46.9 38.6 31.2 21.3 11.6 10.5V 672 493 385 328 254 182 145 97.0 77.5 60.0 46.6 38.3 30.8 21.2 11.6 10.8V 594 440 359 319 246 179 141 94.3 73.9 58.8 46.0 37.4 30.3 21.0 11.5 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 85.0 55.3 40.0 34.2 24.0 16.9 12.7 9.04 6.98 5.17 3.95 3.26 2.61 1.75 1.01 9.9V 79.7 54.2 39.7 33.6 23.7 16.8 12.6 8.86 6.92 5.14 3.93 3.23 2.60 1.75 1.01 10.2V 74.7 52.8 38.9 33.1 23.5 16.6 12.4 8.68 6.74 5.09 3.90 3.20 2.58 1.73 1.00 10.5V 66.9 48.9 36.2 31.4 22.9 16.4 12.2 8.50 6.51 5.01 3.88 3.18 2.55 1.72 1.00 10.8V 59.2 43.6 33.8 30.6 22.2 16.1 12.0 8.27 6.20 4.91 3.82 3.10 2.51 1.70 0.994 30 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 20A60A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) — — — — Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 5A 1.8A 1A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 20A60A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) — — — — Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 5A 1.8A 1A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 20A60A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) — — — — Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 5A 1.8A 1A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 20A60A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) — — — — Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 5A 1.8A 1A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02468 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 20A60A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) — — — — Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 5A 1.8A 1A (min.) (h) Discharge current 1.00A - 4.00A 4.00A - 10.0A 10.0A - 20.0A 20.0A - 40.0A 40.0A - 60.0A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 3.00A or smaller LC-P1220P/AP 31 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P1224PG/APG Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 24.0 Dimensions Length (mm) 125 Width (mm) 165 Total height (mm) 179.5/175 Approx. mass (kg) 8.05 Terminal type M5 bolt/nut & threaded post Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 24.0 10 hours rate (Ah) 22.0 3 hours rate (Ah) 18.0 1 hour rate (Ah) 14.0 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 11 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0.3 13 10 30 100 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 165±2 125±2 (134) (90) (8) (16) (12) (163.4) (124) 16 16.5 M5 M5 9.8 (A)(L) 175±2 (179.5) (16.5) (12) LC-P1224PG/APG Terminal type (option) Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 992 739 523 441 317 234 183 118 104 73.8 58.6 47.9 40.8 26.4 14.6 9.9V 931 724 520 434 314 232 181 116 103 73.4 58.2 47.5 40.6 26.3 14.6 10.2V 872 706 509 426 310 230 179 113 101 72.7 57.8 47.2 40.3 26.0 14.5 10.5V 782 654 474 405 303 226 175 111 97.2 71.6 57.4 46.8 39.8 25.9 14.4 10.8V 691 583 442 394 293 223 172 108 92.6 70.1 56.6 45.6 39.2 25.6 14.3 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 89.0 66.0 45.5 38.0 27.1 19.9 14.6 10.0 8.80 6.20 4.90 3.89 3.40 2.27 1.23 9.9V 83.5 64.7 45.2 37.4 26.8 19.8 14.5 9.80 8.73 6.17 4.87 3.86 3.39 2.26 1.22 10.2V 78.2 63.0 44.3 36.8 26.5 19.6 14.3 9.60 8.51 6.11 4.84 3.83 3.36 2.23 1.21 10.5V 70.1 58.4 41.2 34.9 25.9 19.3 14.0 9.40 8.21 6.01 4.80 3.80 3.32 2.22 1.20 10.8V 62.0 52.1 38.4 34.0 25.0 19.0 13.7 9.14 7.82 5.89 4.74 3.71 3.27 2.20 1.19 G198049 32 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY VS. STORAGE PERIOD CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.1 1 10 100 ɹɹɹ 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 01 2010424 06 02 46 81 02 04 068 1.2A2.4A6A 12A 72A 24A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024681 01 21 41 61 82 0 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 1 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.65V (2.275V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 Capacity (%) 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Battery temperature (°C) (min.) (h) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.1 1 10 100 ɹɹɹ 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 01 2010424 06 02 46 81 02 04 068 1.2A2.4A6A 12A 72A 24A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024681 01 21 41 61 82 0 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 1 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.65V (2.275V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 Capacity (%) 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Battery temperature (°C) (min.) (h) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.1 1 10 100 ɹɹɹ 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 01 2010424 06 02 46 81 02 04 068 1.2A2.4A6A 12A 72A 24A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024681 01 21 41 61 82 0 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 1 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.65V (2.275V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 Capacity (%) 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Battery temperature (°C) (min.) (h) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.1 1 10 100 ɹɹɹ 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 01 2010424 06 02 46 81 02 04 068 1.2A2.4A6A 12A 72A 24A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024681 01 21 41 61 82 0 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 1 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.65V (2.275V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 Capacity (%) 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Battery temperature (°C) (min.) (h) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.1 1 10 100 ɹɹɹ 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 01 2010424 06 02 46 81 02 04 068 1.2A2.4A6A 12A 72A 24A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024681 01 21 41 61 82 0 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 1 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) Charge current 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.65V (2.275V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 Capacity (%) 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Battery temperature (°C) (min.) (h) Discharge current 1.2A - 4.8A 4.8A - 12A 12A - 24A 24A - 48A 48A - 72A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 3.6A or smaller LC-P1224PG/APG 33 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P1228P/AP Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 28.0 Dimensions Length (mm) 125 Width (mm) 165 Total height (mm) 179.5/175 Approx. mass (kg) 9.40 Terminal type M5 bolt/nut & threaded post Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 28.0 10 hours rate (Ah) 26.0 3 hours rate (Ah) 22.0 1 hour rate (Ah) 21.0 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 11 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 1 3 10 30 1003 00 1,000 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 165±2 125±2 (134) (90) (8) (16) (12) (163.4) (124) 16 16.5 M5 M5 9.8 (A)(L) 175±2 (179.5) (16.5) (12) LC-P1228P/AP Terminal type (option) Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 1,160 865 664 585 410 304 260 159 129 91.6 74.1 61.1 50.8 31.8 16.8 9.9V 1,093 849 654 579 404 294 254 156 128 90.4 72.9 60.8 50.4 31.8 16.8 10.2V 1,026 818 643 567 397 288 251 155 127 89.3 71.7 60.5 49.9 31.8 16.8 10.5V 976 784 621 545 386 282 247 154 126 88.1 71.1 60.2 49.5 31.8 16.8 10.8V 903 773 610 539 374 255 218 149 118 84.5 70.5 59.9 49.0 31.8 16.8 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 104 77.2 57.7 50.4 35.0 25.9 22.1 13.5 10.9 7.70 6.20 5.10 4.30 2.60 1.40 9.9V 98.0 75.8 56.9 49.9 34.5 25.0 21.6 13.2 10.8 7.60 6.10 5.06 4.28 2.60 1.40 10.2V 92.0 73.0 55.9 48.9 33.9 24.5 21.3 13.1 10.7 7.50 6.00 5.03 4.25 2.60 1.40 10.5V 87.5 70.0 54.0 47.0 33.0 24.0 21.0 13.0 10.6 7.40 5.95 4.99 4.23 2.60 1.40 10.8V 81.0 69.0 53.0 46.5 32.0 21.7 18.5 12.6 10.0 7.10 5.90 4.95 4.20 2.60 1.40 34 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024 68 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.4A7A56A84A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024 68 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.4A7A56A84A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024 68 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.4A7A56A84A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024 68 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.4A7A56A84A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 024 68 10 12 14 16 18 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.4A7A56A84A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) (min.) (h) Discharge current 1.40A - 5.60A 5.60A - 14.0A 14.0A - 28.0A 28.0A - 56.0A 56.0A - 84A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 4.20A or smaller LC-P1228P/AP 35 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P1238PG/APG Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 38.0 Dimensions Length (mm) 165 Width (mm) 197 Total height (mm) 180/175 Approx. mass (kg) 12.5 Terminal type M6 bolt/nut & M5 threaded post Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 38.0 10 hours rate (Ah) 36.0 3 hours rate (Ah) 29.0 1 hour rate (Ah) 23.0 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 10 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 13 10 30 100 300 1,000 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 197±2 165±2 (155) (111) (27.5) (195.2) (164) 16 16.5 M6 M5 9.8 (A)(L) 175±2 (8.3) (9.8) (1.7) (11.5) (61) LC-P1238PG/APG Terminal type (option) Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 1,349 1,030 800 686 505 351 276 214 169 123 99.2 77.9 68.3 42.0 22.8 9.9V 1,271 1,008 788 682 500 350 269 209 168 120 98.0 76.7 68.0 42.0 22.8 10.2V 1,204 980 768 672 489 349 267 185 167 119 96.8 75.5 67.7 42.0 22.8 10.5V 1,126 952 748 661 480 346 265 183 166 117 95.6 74.9 67.4 42.0 22.8 10.8V 1,098 874 716 640 468 308 247 175 155 114 94.4 74.3 67.1 42.0 22.8 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 121 92.0 69.6 59.1 43.2 29.9 23.4 18.1 14.3 10.3 8.30 6.50 5.70 3.60 1.90 9.9V 114 90.0 68.5 58.8 42.7 29.8 22.8 17.7 14.2 10.1 8.20 6.40 5.68 3.60 1.90 10.2V 108 87.5 66.8 57.9 41.8 29.7 22.7 15.7 14.1 10.0 8.10 6.30 5.66 3.60 1.90 10.5V 101 85.0 65.0 57.0 41.0 29.5 22.5 15.5 14.0 9.80 8.00 6.25 5.64 3.60 1.90 10.8V 98.5 78.0 62.3 55.2 40.0 26.2 21.0 14.8 13.1 9.60 7.90 6.20 5.60 3.60 1.90 G100002 36 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.9A9.5A 38A114A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 3.8A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.9A9.5A 38A114A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 3.8A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.9A9.5A 38A114A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 3.8A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.9A9.5A 38A114A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 3.8A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 1.9A9.5A 38A114A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 3.8A (min.) (h) Discharge current 1.90A - 7.60A 7.60A - 19.0A 19.0A - 38.0A 38.0A - 76.0A 76.0A - 114A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 5.70A or smaller LC-P1238PG/APG 37 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P1242P/AP Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 42.0 Dimensions Length (mm) 165 Width (mm) 197 Total height (mm) 180/175 Approx. mass (kg) 13.5 Terminal type M6 bolt/nut & M5 threaded post Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 42.0 10 hours rate (Ah) 40.0 3 hours rate (Ah) 32.0 1 hour rate (Ah) 26.0 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 10 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 13 10 30 100 300 1,000 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 197±2 165±2 (155) (111) (27.5) (195.2) (164) 16 16.5 M6 M5 9.8 (A)(L) 175±2 (8.3) (9.8) (1.7) (11.5) (61) LC-P1242P/AP Terminal type (option) Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 1,483 1,254 966 835 625 410 312 241 187 132 110 89.9 79.1 48.0 25.2 9.9V 1,405 1,232 955 824 607 407 310 234 186 130 109 89.4 78.5 48.0 25.2 10.2V 1,327 1,210 943 812 596 406 307 217 184 127 108 88.9 77.9 48.0 25.2 10.5V 1,249 1,176 920 800 585 405 306 211 179 126 107 88.5 76.7 48.0 25.2 10.8V 1,215 1,086 886 777 573 390 295 201 173 121 105 87.5 75.5 48.0 25.2 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 133 112 84.0 72.0 53.4 34.9 26.5 20.4 15.8 11.1 9.20 7.50 6.60 4.00 2.10 9.9V 126 110 83.0 71.0 51.9 34.7 26.3 19.8 15.7 10.9 9.10 7.46 6.50 4.00 2.10 10.2V 119 108 82.0 70.0 50.9 34.6 26.1 18.4 15.5 10.7 9.00 7.42 6.50 4.00 2.10 10.5V 112 105 80.0 69.0 50.0 34.5 26.0 17.9 15.1 10.6 8.90 7.38 6.40 4.00 2.10 10.8V 109 97.0 77.0 67.0 49.0 33.2 25.0 17.0 14.6 10.2 8.80 7.30 6.30 4.00 2.10 38 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 2.1A10.5A42A 126A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 2.1A10.5A42A 126A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 2.1A10.5A42A 126A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 2.1A10.5A42A 126A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 2.1A10.5A42A 126A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Discharge current 2.10A - 8.40A 8.40A - 21.0A 21.0A - 42.0A 42.0A - 84.0A 84.0A - 126A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 6.30A or smaller LC-P1242P/AP 39 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P1275P Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 75 Dimensions Length (mm) 166 Width (mm) 350 Total height (mm) 175 Approx. mass (kg) 21.5 Terminal type M6 bolt/nut Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 75 10 hours rate (Ah) 70 3 hours rate (Ah) 53.0 1 hour rate (Ah) 50.0 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 7 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 1 3 10 30 100 300 1,000 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 350±2 166±2 63.5 18 48.2 79.8 164.5 265 137.8 7 343.6 18 18 M6 (L) 175±2 18155 LC-P1275P Terminal type Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 2,273 1,985 1,546 1,313 962 702 555 411 327 220 171 149 125 79.5 45.0 9.9V 2,233 1,950 1,538 1,306 955 683 553 403 325 216 169 147 124 79.1 45.0 10.2V 2,093 1,827 1,531 1,290 940 679 549 400 321 215 168 146 123 78.6 45.0 10.5V 1,875 1,637 1,446 1,230 925 671 546 395 317 210 166 144 122 78.2 45.0 10.8V 1,657 1,447 1,400 1,200 911 580 473 355 301 205 164 143 120 77.8 44.1 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 241 177 134 116 86.9 61.5 51.0 34.8 27.6 18.5 14.3 12.4 10.4 7.14 3.75 9.9V 237 175 132 113 86.3 59.9 50.8 34.1 27.4 18.2 14.2 12.2 10.3 7.11 3.75 10.2V 222 167 130 111 84.9 59.5 50.5 33.8 27.1 18.1 14.0 12.1 10.2 7.07 3.75 10.5V 199 159 126 109 83.6 58.9 50.2 33.4 26.8 17.7 13.9 12.0 10.1 7.04 3.75 10.8V 176 151 122 106 82.3 50.8 43.5 30.1 25.4 17.3 13.7 11.9 10.0 7.00 3.68 40 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 75A 225A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Terminal voltage (V) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 18.75A 3.75A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 75A 225A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Terminal voltage (V) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 18.75A 3.75A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 75A 225A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Terminal voltage (V) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 18.75A 3.75A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 75A 225A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Terminal voltage (V) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 18.75A 3.75A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C) Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -150 15 30 45 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 75A 225A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 Terminal voltage (V) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 18.75A 3.75A (min.) (h) Discharge current 3.75A - 15.0A 15.0A - 37.5A 37.5A- 75.0A 75.0A - 150A 150A - 225A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 11.3A or smaller LC-P1275P 41 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P12120P Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 120 Dimensions Length (mm) 173 Width (mm) 407 Total height (mm) 236 Approx. mass (kg) 34.5 Terminal type M8 bolt/nut Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 120 10 hours rate (Ah) 110 3 hours rate (Ah) 93 1 hour rate (Ah) 85 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 4.5 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 1 3 10 30 100 300 1,000 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 407±2 173±2 275±2 406 172 8 110 26 24 M8 (L) 210±2 24 26 LC-P12120P Terminal type Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 3,603 2,883 2,296 2,036 1,409 1,095 835 663 499 326 261 197 179 104 60.2 9.9V 3,537 2,849 2,285 2,024 1,370 1,062 820 662 486 322 255 191 177 103 60.1 10.2V 3,309 2,776 2,273 2,001 1,322 1,040 805 642 479 315 249 185 168 102 60.0 10.5V 3,020 2,572 2,148 1,907 1,316 1,025 779 629 470 310 246 184 166 101 60.0 10.8V 2,916 2,294 2,079 1,861 1,281 980 756 559 458 306 240 180 163 99.8 59.9 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 361 271 211 181 139 105 86.9 59.3 47.9 32.1 23.7 20.6 17.4 11.1 6.00 9.9V 357 267 210 180 138 102 86.6 58.1 47.5 31.5 23.4 20.4 17.3 11.1 6.00 10.2V 348 261 209 178 136 97.0 85.9 57.7 46.9 31.2 23.2 20.0 17.2 11.0 6.00 10.5V 322 241 198 170 134 92.0 85.4 56.9 46.3 31.0 23.0 19.9 17.1 11.0 6.00 10.8V 282 211 192 165 132 86.9 74.0 51.2 44.0 29.9 22.7 19.8 16.7 10.9 5.88 42 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 6A30A 120A360A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 10.9A Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 6A30A 120A360A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 10.9A Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 6A30A 120A360A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 10.9A Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 6A30A 120A360A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 10.9A Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 6A30A 120A360A 4001 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 10.9A Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Discharge current 6.00A - 24.0A 24.0A - 60.0A 60.0A - 120A 120A - 240A 240A - 300A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 18.0A or smaller LC-P12120P 43 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P12150BP*1 Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 150 Dimensions Length (mm) 183 Width (mm) 532 Total height (mm) 214 Approx. mass (kg) 43.0 Terminal type M8x20 insert Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 150 10 hours rate (Ah) 137 3 hours rate (Ah) 119 1 hour rate (Ah) 88 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 3.5 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 1 3 10 30 100 300 1,000 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 3.5 5 Detail D 163 Ø22.5 Ø18.5 532 +3 -2 499 +3 -2 176 5209 +3 -2 183 +3 -2 LC-P12150BP*1 Terminal type Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 5,040 3,780 3,000 2,390 1,774 1,310 1,046 791 608 444 348 284 242 164 91.2 9.9V 4,925 3,689 2,923 2,334 1,727 1,276 1,013 763 596 437 342 281 240 163 91.2 10.2V 4,340 3,405 2,833 2,261 1,672 1,238 976 724 592 433 339 278 237 163 91.1 10.5V 4,020 3,216 2,751 2,197 1,641 1,208 947 695 585 428 334 274 235 161 90.3 10.8V 3,850 2,839 2,661 2,149 1,601 1,163 910 659 576 420 328 268 232 160 90.3 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 490 350 266 217 164 120 97.2 70.0 59.0 42.1 32.9 27.3 23.0 14.0 7.58 9.9V 479 342 259 212 159 117 94.1 67.5 58.0 41.3 32.3 26.7 22.6 13.9 7.58 10.2V 422 315 251 206 154 114 90.7 64.1 56.9 40.4 31.5 26.0 22.2 13.8 7.50 10.5V 381 298 244 200 151 111 88.0 61.5 55.8 39.8 31.0 25.7 22.0 13.7 7.50 10.8V 334 263 236 195 148 107 84.6 58.3 54.4 38.8 30.3 25.2 21.6 13.5 7.49 *1 This battery is equipped with insert terminals. 44 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 400 1 24 68 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 150A450A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 37.5A 13.5A 7.5A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 400 1 24 68 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 150A450A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 37.5A 13.5A 7.5A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 400 1 24 68 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 150A450A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 37.5A 13.5A 7.5A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 400 1 24 68 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 150A450A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 37.5A 13.5A 7.5A (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 400 1 24 68 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 150A450A 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Charging voltage 2.275V/cell Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) 37.5A 13.5A 7.5A (min.) (h) Discharge current 7.50A - 30.0A 30.0A - 75.0A 75.0A - 150A 150A - 300A 300A - 450A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 22.5A or smaller LC-P12150BP*1 *1 This battery is equipped with insert terminals. 45 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DIMENSIONS (MM) (Wattage/battery) (Ampere/battery) All mentioned values are average values DURATION OF DISCHARGE VS. DISCHARGE CURRENT AMPERE TABLE (25°C) WATT TABLE (25°C) Contents indicated (including the recycle marking, etc.) are subject to change without notice. Battery case resin: flame-retardant (UL94 V-0) FOR STANDBY POWER SUPPLIES. EXPECTED TRICKLE DESIGN LIFE: 10 – 12 YEARS AT 20°C ACCORDING TO EUROBAT. Specifications LC-P12200BP*1 Nominal voltage (V) 12 Nominal capacity 20 hours rate (Ah) 200 Dimensions Length (mm) 237 Width (mm) 533 Total height (mm) 216 Approx. mass (kg) 57.0 Terminal type M8x20 insert Capacity (25°C) 20 hours rate (Ah) 200 10 hours rate (Ah) 187 3 hours rate (Ah) 169 1 hour rate (Ah) 118 Impedance (mΩ) Fully charged battery (25°C) 2.5 Temperature dependency of capacity (%) – 20 hours rate 40°C 102 25°C 100 0°C 85 -15°C 65 Remaining capacity (25°C) After 3 months (%) 91 After 6 months (%) 82 After 12 months (%) 64 Discharge current (A) Duration of discharge 1 3 10 30 100 300 1,000 1 3 5 10 30 60 3 5 10 20 30 0°C 40°C 25°C -15°C (min.) (h) 163 533 +3 -2 500 +3 -2 176 5211 +3 -2 237 +3 -2 3.5 5 Detail D Ø22.5 Ø18.5 LC-P12200BP* 1 Terminal type Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 6,577 5,182 4,285 3,512 2,651 1,863 1,505 1,106 917 668 524 432 369 235 129 9.9V 6,427 5,052 4,264 3,491 2,577 1,807 1,478 1,105 893 660 512 420 363 234 128 10.2V 5,643 4,649 3,966 3,175 2,352 1,674 1,336 965 837 618 483 401 333 222 128 10.5V 5,092 4,390 3,851 3,085 2,308 1,634 1,296 925 821 608 475 396 331 221 128 10.8V 4,462 3,876 3,725 3,017 2,253 1,573 1,246 877 800 592 464 388 325 220 128 Cut-off 5min. 10min. 15min. 20min. 30min. 45min. 1h 1.5h 2h 3h 4h 5h 6h 10h 20h 9.6V 655 471 366 297 222 163 130 95.7 86.0 59.6 45.6 37.0 30.2 19.0 10.1 9.9V 640 460 357 290 217 159 126 92.3 84.6 58.5 44.8 36.1 29.8 18.9 10.1 10.2V 564 425 346 281 210 154 121 87.7 83.0 57.3 43.7 35.3 29.2 18.8 10.0 10.5V 509 401 336 273 206 150 118 84.1 81.5 56.4 43.0 34.9 29.0 18.7 10.0 10.8V 446 354 325 267 201 145 113 79.7 79.4 54.9 42.0 34.1 28.4 18.5 9.99 *1 This battery is equipped with insert terminals. 46 INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS DISCHARGE CHARACTERISTICS DISCHARGE CAPACITY BY TEMPERATURE AND BY DISCHARGE CURRENT CHARGING METHOD (25°C) CUT-OFF VOLTAGE RESIDUAL CAPACITY TEST RESULT CONSTANT-VOLTAGE CONSTANT-CURRENT CHARGE CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRICKLE USE INFLUENCE OF TEMPERATURE ON TRICKLE LIFE Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 10A50A 600A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 19A 400A Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 10A50A 600A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 19A 400A Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 10A50A 600A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 19A 400A Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 10A50A 600A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 19A 400A Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Battery temperature (°C)Charge time (h) Battery voltage (V) Charge quantity (%) Charge current (CA) Capacity (%) Duration of discharge Terminal voltage (V) Charge current 0.05CA 0.10CA 0.50CA 1.00CA 2.00CA 3.00CA 0.25CA Temperature (°C) Service life (years) Capacity retention ratio (%) Storage period (mth.) 0.1 1 10 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 -15 01 53 04 5 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 02 46 81 01 21 41 61 82 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 04 81 21 62 02 4 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 10A50A 600A 400 1 23 57 10 20 40 60 24 68 10 20 19A 400A Charging voltage 2.275V/cell 40°C (104°F) 25°C (77°F) 30°C (86°F) 5°C (41°F) Battery voltage Charge quantity (to discharge quantity) — — — — 1 2 3 Discharge 100% (0.05CA*20H) 50% (0.05CA*10H) Charge Charge voltage: 13.7V (2.28V/cell) Charge current: 0.15CA Temperature: 25°C (77°F) (min.) (h) Discharge current 10.0A - 40.0A 40.0A - 100A 100A - 200A 200A - 400A 400A - 600A Cut-off voltage 10.5V 10.2V 9.9V 9.3V 8.7V Trickle use Control voltage: 13.6V - 13.8V Initial current: 30.0A or smaller LC-P12200BP* 1 *1 This battery is equipped with insert terminals. 47 The data in this document are for descriptive purposes only and are not intended to make or imply any guarantee or warranty. Regarding handling and safety please consult our VRLA technical handbook chapter ‘Precautions for handling VRLA batteries’. INDIVIDUAL DATA SHEETS ABS RESIN A plastic material largely used for the case and cover of batteries. ACTIVE MATERIAL The substance which electrochemically reacts in the elec - trode of batteries. Lead acid batteries adopt Lead Dioxide for the positive electrode and spongy Lead for the negative electrode. AMBIENT TEMPERATURE Average temperature in the vicinity of the battery. AVAILABLE CAPACITY The capacity actually available from a cell/battery. The available capacity is the capacity of a battery when it discharges at a specified hours rate, and expressed in hours rate and Ah. BOLT FASTENING TERMINAL A type of battery terminals, to which lead wires are connected with bolts. BUILT-IN THERMOSTAT The built-in thermostat is a resettable switch built in a battery for temporarily Cut-off the battery circuit when the temperature of the battery exceeds a preset value or when the battery charges/discharges at a higher rate than predetermined. CAPACITY The electric capability of a battery. It usually means ampere-hour capacity expressed in Ah or C (coulomb). CELL The minimum battery unit which composes a storage battery. Nominal voltage of the cell of a lead acid battery is 2V. CHARGE The operation of supplying a battery with a DC current from an external power source to have the electrode active materials conduct chemical reactions then to store electric energy as chemical energy in the battery. CHARGE ACCEPTANCE TEST Test of batteries to check whether or not they are adequately recharged after discharge. CHARGING EFFICIENCY General term for ampere-hour efficiency and watthour efficiency. In many cases it means the ampere-hour effi - ciency. CHINA ROHS Environment Friendly Use period (EFUP) is the number of time before any of the RoHS substances are likely to leak out, causing possible harm to health and the environment. CONSTANT CURRENT CHARGE A method of charging: to charge a battery with a constant current. CONSTANT VOLTAGE CHARGE A method of charging: to charge a battery by applying a constant voltage to the terminals. C-RATE A charge or discharge current rate expressed in A or mA. It is numerically the same as the hours rate capacity of a battery expressed in Ah of the rated capacity. CUT-OFF VOLTAGE OF DISCHARGE The terminal voltage of a battery at which discharging should be dis con tinued. This voltage depends on discharge current, type of electrodes, and construction of battery. CYCLE LIFE The number of charge/discharge/rest cycles a cell/battery can provide. Cycle life is usually expressed by the number of cycles available before duration of discharge decreases to half of the initial value. DEPTH OF DISCHARGE A value to express the state of discharge of a battery. The depth of discharge is generally expressed by the ratio of discharge amount to rated capacity of the battery. DISCHARGE To draw the electric energy stored in a cell/battery. DISCHARGE RATE The term to express the magnitude of discharge current. When assuming discharge current and time to discharge cut-off voltage t hours, this discharge is called t hours rate (tHR) discharge, and the current is called t-hours rate discharge current. When time t is minutes instead of hours, tMR is used. DUTY CYCLE TEST Test of batteries in ordinary use including charge, discharge and rest. ELECTROLYTE The medium which serves to conduct ions in the elec - trochemical reactions in batteries. The lead acid battery uses diluted sulfuric acid as the electro lyte. 48 GLOSSARY OF MAIN BATTERY TERMS ENERGY DENSITY Energy available per unit approx. mass or unit volume of a cell/battery. Energy density is expressed in Wh/kg or Wh/l. FLOAT CHARGE The system in which a constant voltage is continuously applied to a battery connected to a rectifier in parallel with a load to maintain the battery in charged state: on occurrence of power failure or load variation, the battery supplies power to the load without any short break. GAS RECOMBINATION Capability of a battery to recombine (or absorb) internally generated oxygen gas at the negative plate. The greater this capability is, the lower the charge current. HIGH RATE DISCHARGE A very rapid discharge of a battery. (In many cases it means discharging at approx. 1CA or higher rate.) IMPEDANCE The resistance within a battery: it is the total of individual resistances of the electrolyte and the positive and nega - tive plates. Impedance is measured with the four-terminal sensing method (1,000Hz) and expressed in the composite value of resistance component and capacitance compo - nent. INTERNAL PRESSURE The pressure within a sealed battery. Internal pressure of a battery is increased by Oxygen gas which is generated from the positive plate at the end of charging. INTERNAL SHORT-CIRCUIT Touching of the positive and negative plates within a cell. LIFE The time period until a cell/battery loses its expected characteristics. LOW MAINTENANCE Low maintenance means that no watering nor equalizing charge is required in operating batteries. LOW-VOLTAGE CUT-OFF A circuit designed to discontinue discharge of a battery at a predetermined voltage level. MALE TAB The metallic pieces which are attached to a VRLA battery as the terminals. MEMORY EFFECT A phenomenon where a temporary drop of discharge voltage is observed during deep discharge of an Alkaline rechargeable battery which has been subjected to shallow charge/discharge cycles or trickle charging over long time. NEGATIVE PLATE The battery electrode into which a current from the external circuit flows during discharging. The negative plate has lower electric potential than the positive plate to the electrolyte. The negative plate is incorporated with connection parts such as the electrode pole. NOMINAL VOLTAGE A nominal value to indicate the voltage of a cell battery. Generally, nominal voltage value of a battery is somewhat lower than its electromotive force. Nominal voltage of the lead acid battery is 2.0V per unit cell. OPEN CIRCUIT VOLTAGE Measured voltage of a cell/battery which is electrically disconnected from the external circuit. OVERCHARGE Continued charging of a fully charged cell/battery. With batteries which require watering, overcharge causes electrolysis of water, resulting in rapid decrease of electrolyte. Generally, overcharge adversely influences battery life. OVERDISCHARGE Discharge of a battery to a voltage below a predetermined cut-off voltage. PARALLEL CHARGE Simultaneous charging of two or more batteries connected in parallel. In cyclic use of batteries, specifically, the parallel charge tends to cause an imbalance in charge state among the batteries, which may shorten their service life. POLYPROPYLENE RESIN A plastic material which is often used for the case and cover of batteries. POSITIVE PLATE The battery electrode from which a current flows to the external circuit during discharging. The positive plate has higher electric potential than the negative plate to the electrolyte. The positive plate is incorporated with connection parts such as the electrode lugs. 49 GLOSSARY OF MAIN BATTERY TERMS QUICK CHARGE (RAPID CHARGE) Charging in a short time with a large current. RATED CAPACITY The stated capacity of a battery; namely, the ampere- hour amount which can be drawn from the battery in fully charged state at a specified temperature, at a specified discharge rate, and to a specified cut-off voltage. The symbol CN may be used to express the rated capacity of N-hours rate. RECHARGEABLE BATTERY The rechargeable battery is a system comprising two different electrodes and an ion-conductive medium, which is capable of converting chemical energy to elec - tric energy, and vice versa. It is also called a secondary battery. REFRESH CHARGE (AUXILIARY CHARGE) Charging of a battery mainly to compensate for its self- discharge. RESIDUAL CAPACITY Remaining capacity of a battery after partial discharge or after storage for long time. RETAINER TYPE A method to control flowing electrolyte in a battery with the retainer mat, etc. REVERSE CHARGE Charging of a battery with its polarity reversed. SELF-DISCHARGE Reduction in capacity of a battery while no current is drawn by the external circuit. Self-discharge depends on temperature: amount of discharge approximately doubles by each (10°C) rise of ambient temperature. SEPARATOR A porous or microporous liquid-absorbent material which is installed between the battery electrodes for preventing short-circuit, securing the separation of the electrodes and retaining electrolyte. The separator should be resistant to oxidation and chemicals; it should excel in electric insulation and liquid-retention; and it should not disturb diffusion of the electrolyte and ionic conduction. STANDBY USE General term of constant standby battery systems. Batteries are kept charged by trickle/float method at all times in preparation for unforeseen power disruptions. TEMPERATURE COMPENSATION Compensation of charge voltage for temperature varia - tion of a cell/battery or in its vicinity. Qualitatively, charge voltage should be corrected to higher side for low temper - atures and to lower side for high temperatures. TERMINAL VOLTAGE AT DISCHARGE The voltage of a battery during discharging. THERMAL RUNAWAY Such phenomena as an excessively high set-up voltage in constant-voltage charging of a battery and a very high battery temperature cause charge current to increase, which then raises the temperature further: this vicious cycle is called thermal runaway, which may, in the worst case, result in breakage of the battery due to heat. TRICKLE CHARGE To charge a battery in the state of disconnection from the load to compensate for its self-discharge. TRICKLE LIFE The service life of a battery in the trickle use. Usually, the trickle life is the time expressed in years before the dischargeable time of the battery decreases to a half of the initial value. UL Abbreviation of Underwriters Laboratories Inc. in USA. The UL establishes various safety standards, and performs official recognition of materials, parts and products. UPS (UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER SUPPLY) Equipment or system which is automatically connected to the load to supply power if the main power fails. VENT (ONE WAY VALVE) A valve on each cell which automatically releases gas from the battery when internal pressure of the battery exceeds a predetermined value: it prevents breakage of the battery due to excessive internal pressure caused by the gas generated by charging or other reasons. The valve also serves to prevent outside air from entering batteries. 50 GLOSSARY OF MAIN BATTERY TERMS FIND THE RIGHT CONTACT Panasonic is a registered trademark of Panasonic Corporation. Printed in Germany 2021 © Panasonic Corporation ® YouTube Channel Please find a comprehensive selection of Panasonic battery videos at our YouTube Channel. https://www.youtube.com/user/panasoniceubatteries E-mail and website for all European countries battery-solutions@eu.panasonic.com http://industry.panasonic.eu Notice to Readers It is the responsibility of each user to ensure that every battery application is adequately designed safe and com- patible with all conditions encountered during use, and in conformance with existing standards and requirements. This literature contains information concerning cells and batteries manufac tured by Panasonic Corporation. This information is descriptive only and is not intended to make or imply any representation, guarantee or warranty with respect to any cells and batteries. Cell and battery designs are subject to modification without notice. United Kingdom/Ireland Panasonic Industry Europe GmbH Maxis 2, Western Road Bracknell Berkshire RG12 1RT, England Phone: +44 1344 85 32 60 Italy Panasonic Industry Italy (PIIT) Viale dell‘ Innovazione 3 20126 Milano, Italy Phone: +39 02 6788-1 Spain/Portugal Panasonic Industry Europe GmbH Sucursal en España Parque Empresarial @ Sant Cugat, Via Augusta 15-25 Edificio B2 Planta 4 Oficina 17 08174 Sant Cugat del Valles Barcelona, Spain Phone: +34 93 504 30 10 France Panasonic Industry Europe GmbH 10, rue des petits ruisseaux 91370 Verrières-le-Buisson, France Phone: +33 1 60135762 Germany (all other European countries) Panasonic Industry Europe GmbH Winsbergring 15 22525 Hamburg, Germany Phone: +49 40 85 49-63 73 For more details please contact:
